Here, we use the Fourier transform to
find the frequency component of a signal buried in noise.
First we specify a signal,
a sampling frequency of one kilohertz,
and a signal duration of 1.5 seconds.
Using the sampling frequency,
we define the sampling period,
and then put the time vector.
Here, using the wave equation,
we define two signals.
One of our first signals has an amplitude of 0.7, as you can see here.
Then, since the signal is supposed to be at 77 hertz
given by the equation property of a into sine two pi f c t,
I defined my fc here.
Add another signal to it,
which has an amplitude of two,
and the frequency of 43 Hertz.
Next thing we do is we add the noise to our signal using the randn function from MATLAB,
add the noise to the signal.
So now we have a signal,
which is the summation of two different sine waves,
and at the same time is buried under the noise.
If you want to see a signal corrupted by the noise,
let's put the break-point here and run the code.
This is how a signal corrupted with the noise looks like.
Remember, the noises used here is a random noise,
so everyone will have a different profile.
Now, moving forward, we apply the Fourier transform to
the corrupted signal and try to bring the frequency components out.
First, what we do is,
you run the FFT on the signal.
Then, we take the absolute value
since we are only concerned about the amplitude of the signal,
and yes, before we take the absolute value,
make sure you normalize the signal strength.
After that, this is where we want to reject the mirror image of the signal.
The FFT process outputs the mirror image signals.
But we are only interested in one-half.
So, you just start from the first value and go all the way to half a signal,
and use that as our output.
You will learn more about this in one of the videos.
This is where we do the plotting.
So after the whole thing once I run the code,
this is how the output looks like.
So as you can see,
there is a peak of a higher amplitude at 45 hertz,
and then there's another at 77 hertz.
The amplitude is not as what we gave to the signal,
this is because of the noise.